greetings everyone once again to the
china history podcast Laszlo Montgomery
here with you as we continue our ancient
dynasties overview the three Bronze Age
dynasties of China are behind us now
Shao Qiang Cho all done with those the
Qin I rebroadcast last week to keep the
continuity flowing I'm estimating the
entirety of the Han cover-to-cover we're
looking at three maybe four episodes by
this time in China writing and
record-keeping was already very far
advanced so there's plenty that
archaeologists have uncovered in the
study that reveals and pretty reliable
detail aspects of daily life in the Han
court and the environs and around China
there's quite a bit of painstaking
detail about almost every aspect of the
goings-on during the period of Han China
from the second century BC to the third
century AD in previous podcasts well
basically because there wasn't much to
grab on to there was hardly the plethora
of facts and details about those Bronze
Age times that you begin to have with
the Han so you've been skipping over
most of the details from this point
forward in China and each dynasty is
chock full of stories characters battles
events so it might take us multiple
podcast to cover each one you've heard
me mention so much in in a number of
podcasts the Western Han was the period
when he was actually living so China's
Herodotus lived from about 135 to 86 BC
so this time when we read from the og
about what ancient China's greatest
historiographer says about the Han
Emperor's this time he's describing
historical events that happened just
prior to and during his lifetime now
after we finished the Han we're gonna
take a break from our dynasty overviews
and reach into the grab bag and do a few
random topics I have to say I've
received quite a bit of email asking me
to go back to the way I used to do the
podcast jumping back and forth between
ancient and modern periods today we're
going to look at the Western Han Dynasty
as it was called from the time of the
first emperor God zu to the death of his
wife Empress new aka
GU tae ho
who holds the dubious honor of being
considered the cruelest meanest and most
vengeful of all Empress's of China more
about that later this particular time
period we'll look at today lasted from
207 BC to 180 BC only 27 years but trust
me when I say it's jam-packed with tons
of history and significant moments so
what I think we'll do is sort of do what
I did with the Jo dynasty part one where
first I'll give a general overview of
the whole Han time period will also see
what history was going on concurrently
in the West and perhaps elsewhere in
Asia I will look at the signature
achievements of the Han which by the way
was sort of like the Jo in that it's
broken up into western and eastern time
periods there's a brief interregnum when
the infamous usurper wan mong grabbed
power and ushers in the Xin dynasty a
one-hit-wonder of a dynasty that was
founded and perished with LAN Mong as
its sole Emperor so let's get started
from start to finish the Han lasted for
about four and a quarter centuries you
had two hundred fourteen years of the
Western Han a hundred and ninety seven
years of the eastern Han with a 14-year
period when wong mong established the
shang dynasty separating the two periods
when the eastern han fell into 65 ad it
was followed by the fabled Three
Kingdoms period immortalized in the
Sanwa yi
what about elsewhere on planet earth
well it was an incredibly big world but
it was sure starting to get smaller
during this time period East met West
for the first time this was the time
when we see the Silk Road and Chinese
adventurers and traders were coming back
to chung on the capital and telling of
whole civilizations that existed in the
West beyond the Himalayas civilizations
where people lived in cities and had
their own writing as the han dynasty
progressed from 206 BC to 265 AD
Buddhism spread to other parts of Asia
and across China you had the second and
third Punic Wars Rome during this time
reached the height of its power and
all the names we most remember Caesar
Pompey Augustus Cicero Cato Trajan
Antony and Cleopatra all lived and died
during this time however during the
final years of the Han Rome was well
into a steep decline and at the close of
the Han Rome was in complete chaos Jesus
Christ lived during this Han period this
was the period of the Jewish revolt
against Rome in the Diaspora that
followed their eviction from Jerusalem
the Mayan culture was developing and on
its way to reach its greatest Heights so
let's start with the short-lived brutal
repressive Qin Dynasty the mighty change
sir Wong's body is already cold inside
is massive tune with its 8,000 terra
cotta warriors the second and third xin
emperors proved to be hardly the stuff
their father was made of and this
imperial dynasty of china is falling
apart after a little more than a decade
after it was founded in 221 BC the
inhabitants of this Empire were
exhausted from the conscription work on
the great wall palaces the tombs and
other government projects the people
were taxed up to their eyeballs the
feudal lords who had enjoyed so much
power during the period of the Jo
especially the eastern Jo were more than
a little disgruntled at having their
power their weapons their political
influence all taken from them when
chaser Wong suddenly passed from the
scene in 210 BC the former kingdoms
began to reassert themselves again
Confucius had said of the Qin that they
had failed to rule with righteousness
and humanity and had failed to realize
that the qualities required of a ruler
were not those of a conqueror so when we
talk about the founding of the Han
Dynasty we begin with these two
characters from Chinese history or
legends in their own time and whose
exploits are taught in every history
class and every school in the Chinese
speaking world here we introduce the
founder of the Han Dynasty Leo pang and
his nemesis the powerful shown you the
stories and legends surrounding the
battles for supremacy between Liu bang
and Xiang Yu are familiar to all
students of Chinese history let's look
at neo-punk first well what can I say he
was both allege
in his own time and still to this day he
was the first of only two commoners to
rise to the level of Emperor that's in
the entirety of Chinese history Imperial
history anyway he came from nothing
basically and was blessed with quick
wits guts determination and heavens
favour now around the time the old bong
was ascending we're talking two 10209 to
207 BC there abouts the umpire there
Ching sure Wong had cobbled together was
now is the time when it was falling
apart Leo came from function about 90
minutes north by car from present-day
Sciuto in Jiangsu back in lil buns time
it was called Pei County
there's a great story about how he got
the girl he was a nobody living in PEI
County when this wealthy and respectable
Lord moves to the town and he had a
beautiful daughter who he was looking to
marry off to a good husband now this new
guy in town Lord Liu invited some
gentleman to come to his house and he
had a local magistrate named shell huh
act as sort of an emcee for the affair
the deal was that the cost of entrance
to Lord who's was thousand coins
otherwise you had no chance to get close
enough to Lord Liu to make an impact on
him and get a chance to marry his
daughter Xiao foo is at the entrance
taking gifts from suitors and recording
everything and in walks Leo Fung Chava
asks for his his entry fee or you know
whatever you might call this thousand
coins and neo-punk
says to Xiao ho hey you know don't worry
he had ten thousand coins Lord Yu
upon seeing Leo enter his villa
personally welcomed him into the hall
and gave him a seat of Honor so
impressed was Lord Yu with Leo bongs
whole manner in the way he presented
himself Chava then realizes this guy yo
who is already sitting down next to Lord
knew he didn't have any didn't even have
a single copper cash on him and it
conned his way into the hall affair in
the open who fortune favor'd he ended up
getting the daughter Luger who would
later go down in history as the cruel
Empress knew so with his star rising the
open gets caught up in all the
insurrection springing up against the
dying Qin
and his natural charisma and leadership
qualities make him one of the foremost
rebel military leaders of his day
ultimately as far as delivering the
final thrust of the sword into the
already defeated Sheen it all came down
to Leo Poong of the state of Han and
Xiang Yu of the state of Chu
Xiang Yu he was not a commoner he came
from an illustrious line of generals of
the mighty Chu state he was admired by
those who served under him as a warrior
and giant of a man but physically and in
the might of his will
suma Chen can't rave enough about this
guy and his accomplishments based on
what the great historian said in the
show Qi Xiang Yu is considered one of
China's greatest generals he was born
about a hundred kilometres to the east
of Xu Zhuo in what is present-day
tsuchimikado in jung-soo through a
series of victories over the Qin who by
the way nobody liked those guys the
Ching dynasty lasted only a little more
than a decade but it was not what you'd
call a great time to be alive so now
that the Ching were on the run nobody
was on their side
Xiang Yu had declared himself the XI
true belong or the hegemon or Lord
Protector of Western Chu State Western
Chu in those days was spread out over
parts of five provinces and Xu Zhuo was
where the true capital was located he
was the nephew of Zhang Liang who had
made a name for himself in the history
books as an early rebel who had helped
bring the Ching dynasty down
Xiang Yu took up his uncle's mantle
after he was slain in battle
so Xiang Yu he came from a good
background it had proved himself as a
leader of men on the battlefield I think
I can make this an all the Obon Xiang Yu
podcast it's so many great stories there
are about their rivalry and ultimate
showdown so much drama we really have to
move on but let me just give you the
main history these two great leaders
fought each other for what was a chance
to fill the void left by the Ching the
chain only held these Chinese kingdoms
together as one single nation for merely
a decade but they proved it could be
done
so the precedent was set and both Liu
bang and Xiang Yu knew the awesome power
an emperor could hold as opposed to the
king of a mere state
we quickly give you a couple interesting
points about this Chinese chest as that
jung-hwa Xiang Qi is divided into two
sides
you don't say black or white or north or
south Chinese chess boards even to this
day are divided down the center by a
hook or a river one side is true huh and
the other side is Han Jia this comes
from this time period
Xiang Yu of Chu and yo bung of hung and
this showdown this duel to the death
this fight to wear the crown of Qi sure
Wong T was called the true Han
contention or the true hung-chang jung
for five years between 206 and 202 BC
these two armies battled yeah it was
just one big battle after another we'll
come back another day and give this
whole story of Leo bong is young you a
more focused look so many stories and
legends however nobody prevailed over
Xiang Yu and in 202 BC Xiang Yu met his
Waterloo at a place called guys sha
which is located in Ling B and on Quay
actually not too far from where both Leo
panitch young you were born after this
true and Han unite and the open becomes
emperor and reigns as Emperor Gao Qi Han
called su he reigned from 202 to 195 BC
now he isn't the same called su as the
call to Emperor who founded the tang
dynasty
you might recall the ghalsuu Emperor
from the previous Awards of 10 podcasts
same name different Emperor tonkatsu who
did not enjoy a long reign by any
reckoning but long enough to stabilize
China put down rebellions here and there
and get everything working again he had
very able ministers but mostly he just
adopted the same old repressive legalist
political systems as the Qin and slowly
got things in order so he kept all those
old legalist principles although it was
a more relaxed period than under the Qin
Emperor on the good side though he
lowered taxes and everyone got a
breather there if you recall under the
chin all the hundred schools of thought
saved legalism or banned and in the
books by Confucius and all his disciples
and contemporaries were had been burned
under emperor galled civil Confucianism
made a comeback in a big way there was a
scholar at the court named Liu Liu who
took the Emperor from non-believer to
believer of Confucian thoughts and
ideology especially as a pertain to
rulers the capital was first located in
what was considered back then the center
of the universe or at least in Chinese
reckon a this was the city of law yang
which had witnessed from time to time
the kings of Shang East Jo and now the
Han but soon afterwards and forgot su
upon the advice of his loyal advisors
moved the capital to Chang'an or
presentati on from there he was better
able to keep his finger on the pulse of
the constantly troubling northern
barbarians she uh knew his wife became
Empress nu and later at first I would
surely know bong I say you Oh bong hyung
caocao caocao emperor all
interchangeably he remains the same as
he was during the time when he was a
nobody in PEI County
he knew his success had plenty to do
with being one of fortunes favorites
rather than being a great leader he
still caroused and partied with all his
painters on from Pei County and if you
remember shelcha from the story about
how Leoben conned his way in to meet
Lord Lee's daughter he now actually
served as the opens Chancellor Chung
Chung so great were shellye's
contributions to the early Han period
that he went down in history as honcho
Sanjaya or one of the three heroes of
the early Han Dynasty when the Oh bong
became emperor gaozu
he had to buy off a bunch of leaders to
get their support during this tender
stage he had fief seven princes who were
not of the Leal family they started
plotting against him in no time at all
and took various measures to enhance
their power so the Emperor had to find a
way to get rid of them which he did or
at least six of the seven he then
replaced these six with members of his
own family again the old family but
these six as soon as Emperor calls who
dies begin to do the same thing and
build their own power base basically the
administration system set up by the Han
consisted of fourteen commanderies or
military regions to govern the wild west
of the Han Empire into the east which
was more populous and complex there were
ten aristocratic kingdoms set up 100
years later these 14 commanderies become
84 and the ten kingdoms become 18 the
idea was to keep dividing these areas up
into smaller less powerful entities and
to keep an eye on things regional
inspectors were appointed who traveled
the highways and byways of Han China
checking in with all the different
regions and reporting everything back to
the capital this was straight out of the
Qing Dynasty playbook but the Han
refined this kind of administration and
bureaucracy and you had this direct link
between the central government headed by
the Emperor and the individual peasants
who paid taxes spend time and forced
labor for a certain period each year and
of course perform military service when
demanded the Han were quite successful
over time and centralizing power and
gradually breaking down the last
remnants of the feudal system one
example laws were put in place that
called for feudal estates to be passed
to all sons rather than to just one
single ear that broke these fiefdom down
to smaller and smaller estates despite
these sustained pressure to keep them
from rising too high again the Han
aristocratic or Gentry class continued
to grow and evolve as the most powerful
and influential social group I suppose
this is how it is almost anywhere even
today the GAO sue Emperor was known as a
fatalist and in April of 195 BC he died
from his wounds on a punitive expedition
against the king of Hainan Mienfoo
he was struck with an arrow and famously
said to his Empress knew who urged him
to listen to the advice of his
physicians quote I am only a common
person and have won over the country
with just a sword in my hand it is the
will of heaven that determines my fate
it would be useless even if you sent for
the most famous doctor bian qu the entry
by the way went down in history as
China's first great physician he lived
around 500 BC in the eastern Cho's
spring and autumn period you might call
him the Hippocrates of China so the
great new bong hongou su passes from the
scene
and what follows was a great big
in-your-face dose of Chinese imperial
palace intrigue Empress noob takes
center stage now and has her weak son
placed on the throne as Emperor wait now
when Emperor Gao su was alive he had a
favorite concubine she was the beautiful
concubine Chi Chi Chi she had a son with
gout Sehun named Ruhi ghalsuu had
considered rui as his heir but backed
out after terrible opposition at court
who insisted his son by Empress mu
should be the heir well emperor's new
never forgot this or the fact that the
Emperor had showed favoritism to his
concubine rather than his Empress so
later 195 BC after Gao sue was cold in
his tomb she moved on concubine Chi and
the potential heir
she had the Prince poisoned to death and
a rather gruesome in nefarious way she
then had concubine Chi arrested and in
short order had taken her from the
opulent life of the imperial court to
the hell on earth that were the dungeons
there the deceased Emperor's favorite
concubine sat in Chains head shaved
wearing prison garb and also spending
her days husking rice but this wasn't
enough as cemaat Chen wrote and he
should know since he came only seven or
eight decades ex post facto the wicked
Empress knew had her former rival
blinded and had her tongue cut out when
all four limbs cut off and made her live
in an underground Pigpen and she bragged
about this to the court and referred to
concubine Qi is the Ranger or human Pig
when she proudly showed her handiwork to
her son and for a way suma Chen said
that Emperor Wei could no longer rule so
affected was he at the sight of what his
mother had done to his father's favorite
concubine he lived out the rest of his
reign traumatized at what he had beheld
and went through the rest of his days
and a stupor of booze and carnal
pleasures and died in 188 BC he died
leaving two infant sons who became
Emperor's Ian Shaw and Howe Shaw but the
real power lay with the reach
to their grandmother the Empress Dowager
Lu now all these years as Empress had
taught her a thing or two and although
earning a reputation for ruthlessness
and person who was also an extremely
capable administrator and ruler all
right now if you remember Emperor Gao su
at the very beginning he had installed
these people from the Lille family from
his family Lille family as princes in
various lands well as I said they rose
up and and person knew one by one got
rid of them and little by little took
members of her own new family clan and
inserted them into these places of power
and she reigned until 180 BC and died
and with her death we had the great new
clan disturbance as it was called the
looser jure won everyone from the Lu
clan who had enjoyed the good life under
their benefactress the Empress Dowager
Lu were rounded up and executed and her
grandson the puppet Emperor ho Chou was
also deposed this story of how they lose
usurped power away from the royal family
and the aftermath that followed served
as a warning to later generations who
meddled on a grand scale with the royal
family we're gonna stop here and pick up
next time with the Ascension of Emperor
one to the imperial throne with Emperor
one and his son Emperor Jing together
they ruled during the Golden Age of the
Western Han from 180 to 141 BC so please
come back again next week as we continue
our look at the Western Han Dynasty
we're gonna come back another day and
focus more on various aspects of this
period that we just discussed today so
for now this is your humble narrator
Laszlo Montgomery urging you to visit my
website at wwlp.com send me an email or
a comment wow we're only a couple
decades into the Han century still to go
yet I hope you'll keep listening
once again I'm signing off from the
lovely and quaint town of Claremont
California home of the all-american
village Grill located on the corner of
Yale and second join us here each week
as we bring you another topic from Lu
Chen Yin the John Gorrie shirt so take
care everybody